Friends, here we are writing a Docker file to
deploy Python Flask application in Docker container.
Anyway, as usual, first,
I will go with the manual steps to launch Python Flask application in container.
Later, I will use those manual steps to create
a Docker file so that we can create our custom Docker image.
And from that using, with one step,
we can launch our container to run Python Flask application.
Fine.
Now first let me list to the manual steps.
The very first step is we need to launch container using any required image.
Suppose in our case I'm taking image as open to 20.04.
Then you have to install some required packages like Python three, p53, and flask.
Then once it is done,
then we will copy our Python Flask application into Docker container.
So allergy, how a simple Python Flask application and this one.
So I will copy this into container.
So after that, inside of our container,
we will run python three.
Then you are Flask application name so that it will run your Python Flask application.
So after that simply we will open a browser and we will access
this application using its URL and verify whether it is working or not.
That's fine.
Now, let me go to my Docker host.
So as of now, I am not running with
any Docker containers and see that these are the images.
Now, first step is we need to create a container.
So let me create a container using our command called Docker run hyphen MIT hyphen D.
Then let me take name as my Flask app.
Then.
So see by default,
flask applications will run on port number 5 thousand.
If you want to modify that, yes,
you can modify in your logic,
I mean Flask application.
So as of now I'm running that Python Flask application on Python and port number.
So I need to map my Docker host port number with the my Flask application port number.
So simply are taken on Docker host.
And I map with that with 5 thousand of Docker container Flask application port.
Then as of now we are launching that container using open to,
let's say $20 for this image is already there with us.
Now let me run it. So container has been launched.
No, let me enter into it simply by taking docker EX PC,
hyphen IT, container ID then bash.
Now we are inside of a container.
Anyway.
Once container is launched,
we need to install Python three, p53, and Flask.
If remember, to install all these packages first we need to update
our APT Git repo simply by using APT get update,
let's say hyphen byte, that's it.
So it is going to update your API to get, once it is done,
then we can install Python three simply by taking APT get.
Install Python three.
Confirmation? Yes. Fine.
Then after that, by Tom three hyphen
p. So let me probably confirmation in command line itself iPhone way.
So once this Python three is installed,
I mean by Dante and p3,
then how to install Flask module for your python? We will install that.
Just wait for a less than a minute.
Then no, let me install
pip install Flask because
Flask is that required a framework to run your flask applications through Python.
Then.
So after that, we need to copy our Flask application into Docker container.
Anyway, we already have a simple small Python Flask application.
Now let me copy it into container.
See VAR VM editors or not present with you are a base image 01 to 24.
Then let me install anyone of that by taking equity,
get install VIM, let's say hyphen wine.
Because I need to copy it.
No, I need to edit a file.
Now.
I am app.js file.
So inside that let me paste my code.
That's it. Save it and run it. What happened?
Yeah, we're not having Python, Python three.
So now our Python Flask application is running inside a container on 5 thousand port.
But outside a container,
we mapped that with a geoid 0 on our docker host.
So this is my Docker host IP, then edgy right.
Now let me run it so that we are able to access the Python Flask application.
So manual steps are done.
Now let we take all those steps.
So let me stop my application, simply run history.
Let me copy all these commands.
We will remove unnecessary comments.
So just for our understanding purpose,
I'm taking all these commands.
So here let me add a hyphen way.
Then we install the VA anyway, if you want,
you can install theater otherwise, no need to install.
So once it is installed,
we copied and then we run, ya know,
these all are the manual steps which we used to
launch our Python Flask application inside a container.
Now actually, our intention is for our requirement,
we have to create a Docker file so that from
the Docker file we can easily create custom Docker image.
And from the Docker image with one step directly,
we can launch a container with Python Flask application.
Right? Anyway, these are the minute steps.
No, let me go and create a Docker file.
See whenever if you want to create a Docker file,
the best practices always create one folder with your application name or project name.
Let's say I'm taking Flask app, then navigate into.
Now here inside Flask app,
we need to create a Docker file.
So let me take a Dockerfile.
So you can take any file limb,
but Docker file is the southeastern name to create a
Docker file C. Before executing all these steps,
actually we executed all these steps inside a container.
Before that, we launched a container using a base image called open to 20.04.
So that is the first instruction in our docker file.
Now let me write that from urban to quanti dot 04.
Then after that, what is the first step which we executed inside a container?
Simply API to get update hyphen white.
This is a command, right?
And we are installing some packages.
So whenever if you are running a command to install something,
that type of command you have to mention with instruction called run, that's it.
So we have a number of commands here.
Let me copy, paste one-by-one.
So we installed Python using the line,
be clear R1 we are using to install something.
So whatever command you are using,
if that command is going to install something than that command,
you have to mention in your Docker file with the R1 instruction that's a.
Then we installed a flask as well.
So simply run.
That's it.
Anyway, installation part is done.
The next thing we copied app.use anyway into our Docker container.
But whenever if you're implementing a Docker file for that, what we have to do,
he's in any one location on your Docker host.
But Western practices where you have
your Dockerfile in that location, foster create app.js.
So wherever you are creating your Docker file in
that location on literacy creative or Python Flask application, that's it.
Now in the current location where we have our docker file there we have app.js.
And actually we copied that app.use into container.
But while writing your Docker file,
we'll copy that file into Docker image.
So for that we how an instruction called copy.
So in the current location where your Docker file is there,
that means dot slash.
We have app.js that I'm copying into u r slash app.use a location.
So inside a container,
actually inside an image,
we are copying this app.use with this name,
same name I'm taking,
but you can take any name for
your Python Flask application in your image or in your container.
Fine.
So after that final step is simply we are running our Python three app.js, right?
So simply these the command c. Whenever,
if you want to run a command to install something,
then we are taking R1.
But actually, after launching my container,
I need to run this command automatically so
that I can access my Python Flask application.
So for that, you have to take entry point.
So entry point means after lunging your container,
please run this command.
But actually we have a lot of options with the entry point.
By combining with command,
we will see all those things in advance level.
Okay, now let me save it.
Now. Simply run docker build hyphen T.
I'm taking my Flask app using open to base image.
Let's say what SHA-1 as v2.
Because already we have taken something correlate. Let me verify it.
Previously. Bill images go here we are taking Flask app.
Let me take the same name,
but let me take wash. And as we do.
So simply the off-current hyphen T 12,
let say Washington as we do.
Of course you can take say other name as well,
but I'm taking existing name with Washington as we
do that in the current location, our docker file.
So it will take some time to create our custom Docker image from our docker file.
Just wait for that less than two minutes,
I think it will take because very simple Dockerfile.
Once it is done, then with one single step we will launch
a container so that automatically we can access our Python application,
Python Flask application through browser using its URL just right for less than a minute.
So it is running VIM.
Then flask copying done.
Now see our docker images simply by running docker images.
So this is the image just now we created, no,
let me create a container using the docker image, custom image.
But before that, C,
Use reports on your Docker to host these h 0, h 0.
Now, this is the container which we launched with minor steps.
Now I'm creating a new container docker run hyphen,
hyphen D, Let's say name as.
So previously we had taken my Flask app simply now I'm taking Flask app.
Then puts, see already a user on your Docker host.
Let me take on my Docker host port as 5 thousand.
Anyway, inside container, our application is running on 5 thousand port.
Then image is this one.
So with one single step,
our entire setup is done.
That's it.
Now clear and docker ps c that this is the container.
Just know we launched with one single step automatically
our Python Flask application is copied to Docker container and it is running.
Now if you want to verify,
take 5 thousand as the port,
because that is the port we mapped with the docker host.
Go to browser and take your Docker host IP,
then port number as 5 thousand.
See that now it is working perfectly, right?
So friends, there is the simple way to create
a Docker file for Python Flask applications.
Okay?
Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.